Hello my name is Lewis, In this video I will be discussing my recommended project management 
and data collection techniques for game development. 


In traditional project management, the development process is divided into static phases, these phases comprise of 
Analysis which list all requirements for the project, 
Design the project from requirements, 
Developing the mechanics, art and anything required for the project, 
Testing the product, 
Maintain
This is commonly known as the waterfall method. 
These phases must be executed in this specific order, as it allows for increased control throughout 
each phase and offers a lot of formal planning before development is underway.


Agile was created for projects that require significant flexibility and speed compared to more traditional management. 
Agile development follows an incremental and iterative development process and is highly flexible allowing for rapid 
adjustments throughout the project. Instead of massive planning like traditional methods, a project using agile will 
create a product backlog of tasks also known as story points that are prioritized in levels of importance, these tasks 
are then compiled in to a sprint that can last up to 4 weeks. After the sprint is complete the team will review the 
sprint process, at this point it allows the team to identify issues and improvements they can implement for the next sprint.


Scrum is an iterative development process that incorporates close cooperation between employees. A Unique characteristic 
of scrum is a daily stand-up meeting or scrum meeting, the meeting is run by a scrum master and will ask three main 
questions to the team members, What I did Yesterday? What I’ll do today? And What’s in my way? This gives each member 
of the team a chance to communicate and evaluate the current progress of the sprint, this allows for issues or problems 
to be discovered quickly and adjusted and gives the entire team all the data. This can increase the productivity of the 
team members as well as the quality of the work as it reduces the chance of failed sprints. Scrum also using scrum boards 
in which the team can track current in progress tasks and the backlog, these boards can be non-digital and digital. 


XP is a highly flexible agile based methodology that is used in the software development industry, the basis of XP 
development code-writing, test, iterate. Poor communication is the reason behind many project failures, this can occur 
between developers and customers. XP uses a special role called a coach, the sole responsibility of a coach is to ensure 
good communication and detect any inconsistency in communication. Pair programming, is a simple straightforward concept. 
Two programmers work side by side at  one computer, continuously collaborating on the same design, code and testing. 
It allows two people to create higher quality than produced from solitary efforts. Other benefits reduced cycle time, 
enhanced learning with sharing of knowledge between both programmer, improve team work and relationship and overall 2 
head's is better than 1.
